**Agenda**

- Hello all!
- Discuss PoC (hackathon?)
- Action items

**Notes**

- 1 week speccing, 2 days coding?
    - Might be the reverse — 1 week coding, 2 days speccing
- There are a lot of technical details about 1) fraud proof, 2) catalyst, 3) tracer
- Proto's findings, good scope for PoC
    - Verification = implementation
    - Create a state transition function with input as the full Ethereum state, and then output (the next step)
        - There are extra steps between steps - eg. allocating memory. etc
        - You piece these together
- Things you need to implement
    - Interpreter loop (Proto did this)
    - Each opcodes
    - How you get "into" the EVM
        - Block processing
    - Bonus points
        - Receipt root
- What is best to implement as a PoC
    - Notes
        - Generator [feed, reference to the state database]
            - From this data create a first step, repeatedly apply each opcode step
    - Main interpreter loop
    - A few opcodes
    - We could refactor existing Solidity code to use the new structures
        - We already have BondManager.
- Proto showing some go code:
- Kelvin's take from hackathon perspective
    - This is the sort of work that random people in hackathon are not able to do
    - Could simulate it in a different language
    - Proto: This is very similar to the hack that I was describing — where the verifier = generator
- SSZ witnesses
    - View — library which will only change the minimal information changing / auto handles typing & updates
- How to compare Geth and the stateless interpreter?
    - Get all individual fields and compare them 1 by 1 to each
    - Get all transactions, compare output state roots
- The bad part of this implementation:
    - Super verbose, no generics
    - The eth2 specs repo does the same thing but it's way cleaner
    - Consider writing main thing in python for readability
- Proto wrote this in less than a day
- Liam: We definitely need this and eventually written in Solidity
    - Can plug in the Solidity implementation of these opcodes, abstract away the witness updating, etc.
    - Spec wise you can define it really elegantly, Python is simple, long term
- SSZ
    - eth2 is the biggest accounting book
    - You need to abstract away all of the serialization, and then let you write python which on the backend is making massive modifications to a huge DB/data structure
    - In eth2 you perform stateless updates & don't need to have all of the leaves that you don't care about. Eg. all of the other people's balances
        - (i (karl) believe)
    - You definitely want type information for specific
- Karl: Can you create a 1:1 mapping of the go and solidity implementations?
    - Yes you can
    - The interpreter loop is key
    - Break it up into small steps, go through operation by operation
- Proto: I'll keep working on this, but it seems like it's time to Python
    - For PoC we should keep it smaller
- Quick logistical things
    - Proto send repo
        - Publish bare minimal thing
    - Andrew on interactive component
        - We can fully abstract away the interactive game.
        - If we can assume that we have an oracle for which path to follow, then we can play the game
        - Some input that generates N steps, and then an opponent which generates their own steps that might conflict
        - Can you avoid bisection?
            - Proto's high level thoughts - you can XOR the levels individually
        - Other questions — What is likely going to happen in the real world. Sequencer will probably not try to cheat, and so it might at some point post an incorrect state root.
            - If the sequencer is willing to cooperate with the verifier, then you can make it a non-interactive game using a state channel
            - Can also call a function which immediately gives away your funds and lower the penalty if the slasher is honest
        - Happy to get some of Andrew's teammates to work on this pretty quickly
            - I don't see much of a dependency on the rest of the system
        - We'll move forward with the interactive fraud proof, then this is worth while.
            - Arbitrum has their specs & their tricks
                - Should understand how this relates to Optimism
        - Would be happy to build a PoC
